content/Advert_Oct2021_Public_Webinar.md, before:

---

author: Emily Read and Nicole Felts

date: 2021-10-01

slug: webinar-10-13-21

draft: false

type: post

title: Modernizing How You Access Water Data | Webinar on October 13 @ 1 pm EDT

categories: water-information, web-communication

tags: water data, public communication, stream gage

image: /static/Advert_Oct2021_Public_Webinar/webinar_thumbnail.png

description: USGS has provided crucial water data online for decades, but the system is outdated, so we're rebuilding a brand new, modernized system. We're hosting a webinar to talk about the first release of this new system. Join us for our Teams Live Event on October 13, 2021 at 1 pm EDT/ 10 am PDT.

keywords: water data, water access, data access, data delivery, waterquality

author_staff: emily-k-read

author_email: \<eread@usgs.gov\>

---

<div class="grid-row">
<div class="grid-col-8 grid-offset-2">
{{< figure src="/static/Advert_Oct2021_Public_Webinar/WDFN_public_webinar_10_13_21_current.png" caption="USGS presents Water Data for the Nation - Modernizing How You Access Water Data" alt="Dark blue flyer with white USGS logo in top left, white and orange graphic stars in top right, and white waves on bottom with streamgage graphic. White and orange text reads: Water Data for the Nation. Modernizing How You Access Water Data. Making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone. Join the webinar on Wednesday, October 13th, 2021 from 1-2 pm EDT / 10-11 am PDT. Teams live event. USGS Water Mission Area is modernizing how we deliver water data to the public. You talk, #WeHearYou. https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/webinar-10-13-21" >}}
</div>
</div>

# On October 13th at 1 pm EDT/ 10 am PDT, join our [Teams Live Event](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OGU4YzcyYmUtMzcyMS00YTVhLWFmOTQtODIyZjE3ZTM3Y2Mz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a) to learn about how we’re modernizing the way we display water data online.

test

Access to water data is crucial for decision-making, and you can do amazing things with [@USGS_Water](https://twitter.com/USGS_water) data. But, our previous system didn't make data access easy, so we’re [rebuilding our data delivery system](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/realtime-pages-replacement/). 
At USGS, we know it's crucial for water data to be accessible, usable, and discoverable for all US citizens. We’d like to tell you all about how we’re prioritizing better data delivery so you have the information you need to make important decisions. To hear more of the story, watch our brief introduction video, available on [our website](https://www.usgs.gov/media/videos/introduction-water-data-nations-next-generation-monitoring) or on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0UnEH1l-Yg).

## To hear more of the story, watch our brief introduction video, available on [our website](https://www.usgs.gov/media/videos/introduction-water-data-nations-next-generation-monitoring) or [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0UnEH1l-Yg).

## Add this event to your calendar
[Visit our event page on Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/modernizing-how-you-access-water-data-tickets-171511043147) to add this webinar to your calendar. <b>Note:</b> You do <b>not</b> have to register for the event through Eventbrite; you can just click "add to calendar."
## Link to the Live Webinar
Join the Teams Live Event at 1 pm EDT on October 13th by [clicking this link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OGU4YzcyYmUtMzcyMS00YTVhLWFmOTQtODIyZjE3ZTM3Y2Mz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a) or pasting it into your browser (https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OGU4YzcyYmUtMzcyMS00YTVhLWFmOTQtODIyZjE3ZTM3Y2Mz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a). You do not have to download Teams to watch this webinar.

## Join the conversation – attend our public webinar on October 13th, 2021 @ 1pm EDT/ 10am PDT.

#WeHearYou - You can email us at any time: [WDFN@usgs.gov](mailto:wdfn@usgs.gov). We will have time in the second half of the webinar to answer questions live. 

Share your thoughts with us by [filling out this feedback form!](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=urWTBhhLe02TQfMvQApUlPwk2geyaQhGpWWJx543yllUOVpLWUNHNFFZWkhYWDY2Tk1JNklDN0EwRiQlQCN0PWcu)

Commit message:

Updated blogs with webinar recording link

content/Advert_Oct2021_Public_Webinar.md, after:

---

author: Emily Read and Nicole Felts

date: 2021-10-01

slug: webinar-10-13-21

draft: false

type: post

title: Modernizing How You Access Water Data | Webinar on October 13 @ 1 pm EDT

categories: water-information, web-communication

tags: water data, public communication, stream gage

image: /static/Advert_Oct2021_Public_Webinar/webinar_thumbnail.png

description: USGS has provided crucial water data online for decades, but the system is outdated, so we're rebuilding a brand new, modernized system. We're hosting a webinar to talk about the first release of this new system. Join us for our Teams Live Event on October 13, 2021 at 1 pm EDT/ 10 am PDT.

keywords: water data, water access, data access, data delivery, waterquality

author_staff: emily-k-read

author_email: \<eread@usgs.gov\>

---
# Missed the webinar? Watch the recording
The recording of this webinar can be viewed on the [USGS website](https://www.usgs.gov/media/videos/public-webinar-modernizing-how-you-access-water-data) or on the USGS [YouTube channel](AWAITING LINK).

<div class="grid-row">
<div class="grid-col-8 grid-offset-2">
{{< figure src="/static/Advert_Oct2021_Public_Webinar/WDFN_public_webinar_10_13_21_current.png" caption="USGS presents Water Data for the Nation - Modernizing How You Access Water Data" alt="Dark blue flyer with white USGS logo in top left, white and orange graphic stars in top right, and white waves on bottom with streamgage graphic. White and orange text reads: Water Data for the Nation. Modernizing How You Access Water Data. Making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone. Join the webinar on Wednesday, October 13th, 2021 from 1-2 pm EDT / 10-11 am PDT. Teams live event. USGS Water Mission Area is modernizing how we deliver water data to the public. You talk, #WeHearYou. https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/webinar-10-13-21" >}}
</div>
</div>

# On October 13th at 1 pm EDT/ 10 am PDT, join our [Teams Live Event](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OGU4YzcyYmUtMzcyMS00YTVhLWFmOTQtODIyZjE3ZTM3Y2Mz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a) to learn about how we’re modernizing the way we display water data online.


Access to water data is crucial for decision-making, and you can do amazing things with [@USGS_Water](https://twitter.com/USGS_water) data. But, our previous system didn't make data access easy, so we’re [rebuilding our data delivery system](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/realtime-pages-replacement/). 
At USGS, we know it's crucial for water data to be accessible, usable, and discoverable for all US citizens. We’d like to tell you all about how we’re prioritizing better data delivery so you have the information you need to make important decisions. To hear more of the story, watch our brief introduction video, available on [our website](https://www.usgs.gov/media/videos/introduction-water-data-nations-next-generation-monitoring) or on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0UnEH1l-Yg).

## To hear more of the story, watch our brief introduction video, available on [our website](https://www.usgs.gov/media/videos/introduction-water-data-nations-next-generation-monitoring) or [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0UnEH1l-Yg).

## Add this event to your calendar
[Visit our event page on Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/modernizing-how-you-access-water-data-tickets-171511043147) to add this webinar to your calendar. <b>Note:</b> You do <b>not</b> have to register for the event through Eventbrite; you can just click "add to calendar."
## Link to the Live Webinar
Join the Teams Live Event at 1 pm EDT on October 13th by [clicking this link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OGU4YzcyYmUtMzcyMS00YTVhLWFmOTQtODIyZjE3ZTM3Y2Mz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a) or pasting it into your browser (https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OGU4YzcyYmUtMzcyMS00YTVhLWFmOTQtODIyZjE3ZTM3Y2Mz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a). You do not have to download Teams to watch this webinar.

## Join the conversation – attend our public webinar on October 13th, 2021 @ 1pm EDT/ 10am PDT.

#WeHearYou - You can email us at any time: [WDFN@usgs.gov](mailto:wdfn@usgs.gov). We will have time in the second half of the webinar to answer questions live. 

Share your thoughts with us by [filling out this feedback form!](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=urWTBhhLe02TQfMvQApUlPwk2geyaQhGpWWJx543yllUOVpLWUNHNFFZWkhYWDY2Tk1JNklDN0EwRiQlQCN0PWcu)
