content/API_SensorThings.md, before:

---
author: Nicole Felts and Jim Kreft
date: 2022-01-27
slug: api-webinar-sensorthings
draft: false 
type: post
title: SensorThings | API Webinar | Jan 31
toc: false
categories: 
- Water Information
- Web Communication
- Events
tags:
- Water Data
- Water Data for the Nation
- Public Communication
- APIs
image: /static/API_SensorThings/API SensorThings Blog1.gif
description: On January 31st, 2022, join our webinar to learn how to use USGS Application Programming Interfaces to serve your unique water data display needs.
keywords: water data, API, webinar, tutorial
author_staff: 
author_email: <wdfn@usgs.gov>
---

<div class="grid-row">
{{< figure src="/static/API_SensorThings/API. SensorThings Banner GIF.gif" caption="[On January 31st, join the first webinar in our API series.](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sensorthings-apis-easily-integrate-real-time-water-data-tickets-231028541587)" alt="Banner image with the following text: Join Our API Webinar Series. USGS. Easily Integrate Real-Time Water Data. SensorThings API on Monday, January 31st, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. OGC API on Monday, February 28th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. What's Next? Monday, April 25th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. Water Data for the Nation. Making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone. On the right side of the image there is a computer programming screen with the text 'API.' Next to that, two gears working together continually turn, making this a gif." >}}
</div>

## ❔ What is the Application Programming Interface (API) Series?
🙌 At the United States Geological Survey, we're making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone.

Water data should be usable 🦾! Our modernized APIs provide a way for you to display our water data in the format that works best for you. Learn more about how & why to use USGS modernized APIs to integrate our water data in your applications.

[In this API webinar series](https://www.eventbrite.com/cc/application-programming-interface-series-95289), we'll touch on what USGS water data is, then we'll discuss the API formats that have been used in the past and why the new API formats are better for you.

### Upcoming Webinars in API Series
| Title | Date | Time |
|------|----------|-------|
[SensorThings](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sensorthings-apis-easily-integrate-real-time-water-data-tickets-231028541587) | Monday, January 31st, 2022 | 12 pm ET / 9 am PT
[OGC](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/ogc-apis-easily-integrate-real-time-water-data-tickets-252218772137?aff=odcleoeventsincollection) | Monday, February 28th, 2022 | 12 pm ET / 9 am PT
[What's Next?](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/whats-next-apis-easily-integrate-real-time-water-data-tickets-252228220397?aff=odcleoeventsincollection) | Monday, April 25th, 2022 | 12 pm ET / 9 am PT

## ❔ What is the SensorThings Webinar?
We'll start with some background on USGS water data & Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), then we'll dive into a live demo of our new API, SensorThings. 

We'll show you how & why you should use USGS water data APIs to get the locations & data you need onto maps, now easier than ever!


## 🕛 When is the SensorThings Webinar?
On Monday, Janaury 31st, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT.


## 👩‍💻 Who is the SensorThings Webinar For?
- [Operationalized Pull Water Data for the Nation users](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/user_operational_pull/)

- Programmers interested in improving their workflow with USGS water data

- Anyone who wants to learn more about the power of APIs!


## 📆 How Can I Register/ Sign Up / Add to My Calendar?
Conveniently add this event to your calendar through our [Eventbrite page](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sensorthings-apis-easily-integrate-real-time-water-data-tickets-231028541587).

Registering on Eventbrite helps us know approximately how many people will attend, but you do not have to register on Eventbrite to attend this webinar (or any of our webinars!).

[Join the Teams Live event](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NGU3M2ZmYzItZTYyMi00Mjg4LTk5YWMtYTVjZmE4MjY3ZGZm%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a) at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT on January 31st!

Commit message:

added link to recording, removed eventbrite

content/API_SensorThings.md, after:

---
author: Nicole Felts and Jim Kreft
date: 2022-01-27
slug: api-webinar-sensorthings
draft: false 
type: post
title: SensorThings | API Webinar | Jan 31
toc: false
categories: 
- Water Information
- Web Communication
- Events
tags:
- Water Data
- Water Data for the Nation
- Public Communication
- APIs
image: /static/API_SensorThings/API SensorThings Blog1.gif
description: On January 31st, 2022, join our webinar to learn how to use USGS Application Programming Interfaces to serve your unique water data display needs.
keywords: water data, API, webinar, tutorial
author_staff: 
author_email: <wdfn@usgs.gov>
---

*Updated February 14th, 2022*

## [Catch the recording of the SensorThings Webinar here!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n7TQoJAQ8WI)
<div class="grid-row">
{{< figure src="/static/API_SensorThings/API. SensorThings Banner GIF.gif" caption="On January 31st, we hosted the [first webinar in our API series.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n7TQoJAQ8WI)" alt="Banner image with the following text: Join Our API Webinar Series. USGS. Easily Integrate Real-Time Water Data. SensorThings API on Monday, January 31st, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. OGC API on Monday, February 28th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. What's Next? Monday, April 25th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. Water Data for the Nation. Making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone. On the right side of the image there is a computer programming screen with the text 'API.' Next to that, two gears working together continually turn, making this a gif." >}}
</div>

## ❔ What is the Application Programming Interface (API) Series?
🙌 At the United States Geological Survey, we're making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone.

Water data should be usable 🦾! Our modernized APIs provide a way for you to display our water data in the format that works best for you. Learn more about how & why to use USGS modernized APIs to integrate our water data in your applications.

In this API webinar series, we'll touch on what USGS water data is, then we'll discuss the API formats that have been used in the past and why the new API formats are better for you.

### Upcoming Webinars in API Series
| Title | Date | Time |
|------|----------|-------|
SensorThings | Monday, January 31st, 2022 | 12 pm ET / 9 am PT
OGC | Monday, February 28th, 2022 | 12 pm ET / 9 am PT
What's Next? | Monday, April 25th, 2022 | 12 pm ET / 9 am PT

## ❔ What is the SensorThings Webinar?
We'll start with some background on USGS water data & Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), then we'll dive into a live demo of our new API, SensorThings. 

We'll show you how & why you should use USGS water data APIs to get the locations & data you need onto maps, now easier than ever!


## 🕛 When is the SensorThings Webinar?
On Monday, Janaury 31st, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT.


## 👩‍💻 Who is the SensorThings Webinar For?
- [Operationalized Pull Water Data for the Nation users](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/user_operational_pull/)

- Programmers interested in improving their workflow with USGS water data

- Anyone who wants to learn more about the power of APIs!


## 📆 How Can I Register/ Sign Up / Add to My Calendar?
We'll be offering a new way to register for webinars soon!

[Join the Teams Live event](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NGU3M2ZmYzItZTYyMi00Mjg4LTk5YWMtYTVjZmE4MjY3ZGZm%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a) at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT on January 31st!
