content/nextgen_update.md, before:

---
author: Nicole Felts, Randi Butler
date: 2022-03-23
slug: NextGen-webinar-apr11
draft: false
type: post
title: Next Generation Update Webinar | Apr 11
toc: false
categories: 
- Water Information
- Web Communication
- Events
tags:
- Water Data
- Water Data for the Nation
- Public Communication
- Monitoring Location Pages
- NextGen
image: /static/nextgen_update/NextGen Update_Blog_4.png
description: On April 11th, 2022, join our public webinar where we'll provide an update on the Next Generation Monitoring Location Pages and give a live demo of the Next Generation WaterAlert. Wondering what these products are? Read on...
keywords: monitoring location pages, water data, next generation, webinar, update
author_staff: 
author_email: <wdfn@usgs.gov>
---

[Watch the recording]()

# Summary
## Monitoring Location Pages
During this webinar, we notified users that our timelines have shifted for NextGen Monitoring Location Pages.
Instead of redirecting the pages in March of 2022, we will be redirecting the pages in September 2022. We will be decommissioning the NWISWeb current-conditions real-time pages in July 2023. They are our most popular pages on the National Water Information System Web (NWISWeb) and they are being replaced with Next Generation Monitoring Location pages. By July 2023, NextGen pages will have all of the critical functionality of the legacy pages and more, so we will be ready to say thank you and goodbye to these popular legacy real-time current-conditions pages.
## WaterAlert
Our real-time notification service, WaterAlert, is being modernized. Users will have an opportunity to transfer their alerts from the Legacy system to the Next Generation system during a 2 month transition period that we anticipate to open in summer 2022, likely in June. Users will be notified up to 3 times during the 2 month transition period, if they do not take immediate action to transfer their alerts. Next Generation WaterAlert's anticipated go live date will be in the fall of 2022, likely in August.
If users do not transition their alerts during this 2 month period, their Legacy alerts will permanently disappear when the Legacy system is decommissioned in fall 2022. They can create new alerts in the NextGen system. 

<div class="grid-row">
{{< figure src="/static/nextgen_update/NextGen Update_Blog_4.png" caption="Join our Next Generation Update Webinar on Monday, April 11th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. NextGen Monitoring Location Pages are live now and NextGen WaterAlert is coming soon in August 2022. 👀" alt="NextGen WaterAlert is displayed on an iPhone, although it is mostly hidden by a gray ribbon that reads: NextGen Coming soon! August 2022. Underneath, the text reads: WaterAlert. subscribe to alerts for your favorite gages. NextGen Monitoring Location Page is displayed on an iPhone. Underneat, the text reads: Monitoring Location Pages. check your favorite gages. The text on this image reads: Water Data for the Nation. Next Generation Update Webinar. Monday April 11th, 2022. 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. waterdata.usgs.gov/blog. The blue USGS logo is in the top right." >}}
</div>

## ❔ What is this webinar about?

USGS has provided water data on the web for decades, and that data is important to many users from recreationalists to critical decision-makers. Some of our data delivery systems are outdated and can no longer be updated. In order for our water data to be effectively used, we have to modernize our systems, so Water Resources Mission Area has been gradually replacing legacy systems. In this webinar, we'll talk about our modernization process in general, then we'll dive deeper into the Next Generation Monitoring Location Pages and WaterAlert.

Monitoring Location Pages provide real-time water data to users. [Read our blog post](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/realtime-pages-replacement/) about the modernization of legacy current conditions pages into NextGen monitoring location pages.

WaterAlert is a subscription service to real-time notifications of water levels for active gages. Check out our [detailed blog post on Next Generation WaterAlert](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/WaterAlert-transition/).

*P.S. You'll get a first look at NextGen WaterAlert when Product Owner Randi Butler gives a live demo. 🙌🥳*


## 🕛 When is this webinar?
**On Monday, April 11th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT.**


## 👩🧑 Who is this webinar for?
- [Check Status Water Data for the Nation Users](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/user_check_status/)

- [Explore & Download Water Data for the Nation Users](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/user_explore_download/)

- Anyone who wants to learn more about the modernization of water data display!


## 📆 How can I register?
Fill out [this form](https://forms.office.com/g/VuUJ4pfhUU). Microsoft Power Automate will send you an email confirmation on our behalf with the link to join the webinar (link is also below). We've noticed that Gmail often directs these automated confirmation emails to spam - so be sure to check your spam folder!

*Note: You can attend this event without registering by clicking the link below to join the call live on the day of the event.*

## 📞 Where's the link to join the live call?
Join the webinar by clicking [this link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjlmMmEwZGItN2U5ZS00NDgzLWE2NjktNGRjMzUwOTU5NmQy%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%7d).


<br>
<br>

*🙌 With Water Data for the Nation, the USGS is making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone.*

Commit message:

finished summary for nextgen update blog

content/nextgen_update.md, after:

---
author: Nicole Felts, Randi Butler
date: 2022-03-23
slug: NextGen-webinar-apr11
draft: false
type: post
title: Next Generation Update Webinar | Apr 11
toc: false
categories: 
- Water Information
- Web Communication
- Events
tags:
- Water Data
- Water Data for the Nation
- Public Communication
- Monitoring Location Pages
- NextGen
image: /static/nextgen_update/NextGen Update Webinar_Blog_FALL.png
description: On April 11th, 2022, join our public webinar where we'll provide an update on the Next Generation Monitoring Location Pages and give a live demo of the Next Generation WaterAlert. Wondering what these products are? Read on...
keywords: monitoring location pages, water data, next generation, webinar, update
author_staff: 
author_email: <wdfn@usgs.gov>
---

## *Recording coming soon!*

# Summary
## Monitoring Location Pages
During this webinar, we notified users that our timelines have shifted for NextGen Monitoring Location Pages.
We anticipate to begin redirecting Legacy pages to NextGen pages in September 2022. 
Some features we plan to add before redirect:
- ✔ Add scale to map (complete!)
- ✔ Provide option to download data near data tables (complete!)
- Make data sortable by time
- Make Facebook shares more compelling with images
- New zoom options to improve interactivity with graph and axis
- Daily statistics for the latest day
- Multi-parameter feature (2 parameters on the same plot)

After adding many highly-requested features, we anticipate decommissioning the NWISWeb current-conditions real-time pages in July 2023.
Some features we plan to add before decommission:
- Better download capability
- Possible expansion of WSC-specified text fields like manuscript, location-level revisions (interaction with SIMS)
- Make wind direction parameter a set of discrete measurements (not continuous line)
- Features to better show water quality samples: Showing some field visit data with continuous water quality measurements; Having a summary of available water quality data

## WaterAlert
Our real-time notification service, [WaterAlert, is being modernized](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/wateralert-transition/). Users will have an opportunity to transfer their alerts from the Legacy system to the Next Generation system during a 2-month transition period that we anticipate to open in summer 2022, likely in June. Users will be notified up to 3 times during the 2-month transition period if they do not take immediate action to transfer their alerts. Next Generation WaterAlert's anticipated go-live date will be in the fall of 2022, likely in August.
If users do not transition their alerts during this 2-month period, their Legacy alerts will permanently disappear when the Legacy system is decommissioned in fall 2022. They will be able to create new alerts in the NextGen system. 

<div class="grid-row">
{{< figure src="/static/nextgen_update/NextGen Update_Blog_4.png" caption="Join our Next Generation Update Webinar on Monday, April 11th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. NextGen Monitoring Location Pages are live now and NextGen WaterAlert is coming soon in August 2022. 👀" alt="NextGen WaterAlert is displayed on an iPhone, although it is mostly hidden by a gray ribbon that reads: NextGen Coming soon! August 2022. Underneath, the text reads: WaterAlert. subscribe to alerts for your favorite gages. NextGen Monitoring Location Page is displayed on an iPhone. Underneat, the text reads: Monitoring Location Pages. check your favorite gages. The text on this image reads: Water Data for the Nation. Next Generation Update Webinar. Monday April 11th, 2022. 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. waterdata.usgs.gov/blog. The blue USGS logo is in the top right." >}}
</div>

## ❔ What is this webinar about?

USGS has provided water data on the web for decades, and that data is important to many users from recreationalists to critical decision-makers. Some of our data delivery systems are outdated and can no longer be updated. In order for our water data to be effectively used, we have to modernize our systems, so Water Resources Mission Area has been gradually replacing legacy systems. In this webinar, we'll talk about our modernization process in general, then we'll dive deeper into the Next Generation Monitoring Location Pages and WaterAlert.

Monitoring Location Pages provide real-time water data to users. [Read our blog post](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/realtime-pages-replacement/) about the modernization of legacy current conditions pages into NextGen monitoring location pages.

WaterAlert is a subscription service to real-time notifications of water levels for active gages. Check out our [detailed blog post on Next Generation WaterAlert](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/WaterAlert-transition/).

*P.S. You'll get a first look at NextGen WaterAlert when Product Owner Randi Butler gives a live demo. 🙌🥳*


## 🕛 When is this webinar?
**On Monday, April 11th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT.**


## 👩🧑 Who is this webinar for?
- [Check Status Water Data for the Nation Users](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/user_check_status/)

- [Explore & Download Water Data for the Nation Users](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/user_explore_download/)

- Anyone who wants to learn more about the modernization of water data display!


## 📆 How can I register?
Fill out [this form](https://forms.office.com/g/VuUJ4pfhUU). Microsoft Power Automate will send you an email confirmation on our behalf with the link to join the webinar (link is also below). We've noticed that Gmail often directs these automated confirmation emails to spam - so be sure to check your spam folder!

*Note: You can attend this event without registering by clicking the link below to join the call live on the day of the event.*

## 📞 Where's the link to join the live call?
Join the webinar by clicking [this link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjlmMmEwZGItN2U5ZS00NDgzLWE2NjktNGRjMzUwOTU5NmQy%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%7d).


<br>
<br>

*🙌 With Water Data for the Nation, the USGS is making high-quality water information discoverable, accessible, and usable for everyone.*
