content/NextGen_WaterAlert_Webinar.md, before:

---
author: Nicole Felts and Randi Butler
date: 2022-05-05
slug: nextgen-wateralert-webinar
draft: false
type: post
title: NextGen WaterAlert | Webinar | June 6
toc: true
categories:
- Water Information
- Web Communication
- Events
tags:
- Water Data
- Water Data for the Nation
- Public Communication
- WaterAlert
- Next Generation
image: /static/NextGen_WaterAlert_Webinar/WaterAlert Webinar_June6.png
description: On June 6th, 2022, join our webinar to learn how to transition your alerts to Next Generation WaterAlert.
keywords: water data, WaterAlert, transition, Next Generation
author_staff:
author_email: <wdfn@usgs.gov>
---
<div class="grid-row">
{{< figure src="/static/NextGen_WaterAlert_Webinar/WaterAlert Webinar_June6.png" width="80%" caption="On June 6th, our Next Generation WaterAlert webinar will answer all your questions, facilitating the transition for Legacy WaterAlert users." alt="text here" >}}
</div>

## ❔ What is the NextGen WaterAlert Webinar?
The United States Geological Survey monitors the waters of the nation. We display that data on Next Generation Monitoring Location Pages. But what if you don't want to check the pages when your local stream floods? What if you want to be notified automatically? Good thing we have a service for that called WaterAlert!

WaterAlert is a popular subscription service that allows users to subscribe to email or text (SMS) messages when certain parameters, as measured by a USGS monitoring location, exceed user-definable thresholds. In essence, users select the type of data they need, like streamflow/discharge or gage height, and WaterAlert will send notifications once per hour or daily, whatever the user selects.

USGS is on a long-haul journey to modernize our water data delivery systems and WaterAlert is one of those data delivery systems. But in order for existing users to preserve their existing alerts in the Legacy system, they will have to take action. **So in this webinar we'll walk you through those steps to transition to the NextGen system, and we'll answer any of your questions about WaterAlert.**

[Read more about the WaterAlert transition](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/wateralert-transition/).

## 🕛 When is it?
On Monday, June 6th, 2022 at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT. **This webinar will be recorded. We'll post the recording about one week after the event** on this blog post, on our [WMA website](https://www.usgs.gov/mission-areas/water-resources), and on the [USGS YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeXH8GZyV3sVqAr45AvupOA).


## 👩‍💻 Who is it for?
- Legacy WaterAlert users
- Anyone interested in learning more about WaterAlert


## 📆 How Can I Register?
We do not require registration to attend this open event, but for ease of adding this event to your calendar, you can [fill out this form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=urWTBhhLe02TQfMvQApUlHYcwHQsfVVFlOyeIuy0QDdUM0VNNVFMT09YTFdPQkQxSTA4VzFCQ0JBNy4u). Microsoft Power Automate will send you an email confirmation on our behalf with the link to join the webinar (link is also below). We’ve noticed that Gmail often directs these automated confirmation emails to spam - so be sure to check your spam folder!

## 📞 Where's the link to join the live call?
On Monday, June 6th at 12 pm ET/ 9 am PT, [click this link to join the Live Event](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NGZmMThjMjYtMDU3Zi00NjdmLTgzMjgtYjYyNTRiMzRhY2Nk%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2274c01c76-7d2c-4555-94ec-9e22ecb44037%22%2c%22IsBroadcastMeeting%22%3atrue%7d&btype=a&role=a).

## 🎥 Recording
Check back about one week after the event and we'll post the recording!

Commit message:

updated this blog post to have TBD date

content/NextGen_WaterAlert_Webinar.md, after:

---
author: Nicole Felts and Randi Butler
date: 2022-05-05
slug: nextgen-wateralert-webinar
draft: false
type: post
title: NextGen WaterAlert | Webinar | Date TBD
toc: true
categories:
- Water Information
- Web Communication
- Events
tags:
- Water Data
- Water Data for the Nation
- Public Communication
- WaterAlert
- Next Generation
image: /static/NextGen_WaterAlert_Webinar/WaterAlert Webinar_June6.png
description: In this webinar, learn how to transition your alerts to Next Generation WaterAlert.
keywords: water data, WaterAlert, transition, Next Generation
author_staff:
author_email: <wdfn@usgs.gov>
---
<div class="grid-row">
{{< figure src="/static/NextGen_WaterAlert_Webinar/WaterAlert Webinar_June6.png" width="80%" caption="This webinar on Next Generation WaterAlert will answer all your questions, facilitating the transition for Legacy WaterAlert users." alt="text here" >}}
</div>

## ❔ What is the NextGen WaterAlert Webinar?
The United States Geological Survey monitors the waters of the nation. We display that data on Next Generation Monitoring Location Pages. But what if you don't want to check the pages when your local stream floods? What if you want to be notified automatically? Good thing we have a service for that called WaterAlert!

WaterAlert is a popular subscription service that allows users to subscribe to email or text (SMS) messages when certain parameters, as measured by a USGS monitoring location, exceed user-definable thresholds. In essence, users select the type of data they need, like streamflow/discharge or gage height, and WaterAlert will send notifications once per hour or daily, whatever the user selects.

USGS is on a long-haul journey to modernize our water data delivery systems and WaterAlert is one of those data delivery systems. But in order for existing users to preserve their existing alerts in the Legacy system, they will have to take action. **So in this webinar we'll walk you through those steps to transition to the NextGen system, and we'll answer any of your questions about WaterAlert.**

[Read more about the WaterAlert transition](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/wateralert-transition/).

## 🕛 When is it?
We're not sure yet! Check back soon for a date and time. We're scheduling this event for when the transition period opens, but we're not sure on the exact date that the transition will start, so read [this blog post](https://waterdata.usgs.gov/blog/wateralert-transition/) for more details. **This webinar will be recorded. We'll post the recording about one week after the event** on this blog post, on our [WMA website](https://www.usgs.gov/mission-areas/water-resources), and on the [USGS YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeXH8GZyV3sVqAr45AvupOA).


## 👩‍💻 Who is it for?
- Legacy WaterAlert users
- Anyone interested in learning more about WaterAlert


## 📆 How Can I Register?
We do not require registration to attend this open event, but for ease of adding this event to your calendar, you can [fill out this form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=urWTBhhLe02TQfMvQApUlHYcwHQsfVVFlOyeIuy0QDdUM0VNNVFMT09YTFdPQkQxSTA4VzFCQ0JBNy4u). Microsoft Power Automate will send you an email confirmation on our behalf with the link to join the webinar (link is also below). We’ve noticed that Gmail often directs these automated confirmation emails to spam - so be sure to check your spam folder!

## 📞 Where's the link to join the live call?
Once we have a date for the webinar, we'll share the link to join the live call.

## 🎥 Recording
Check back about one week after the event and we'll post the recording!
